---
title: 'Don''t Spoil Your Leather Car Seats, Clean Them Effectively'
description: ""
pubDate: 2014-01-27
redirect_from:
            - https://mahinge.com/?p=3668
tags: ["Affiliate Marketing"]
image: /blog/post-01-cover.png
---
Do you want to know ho to clean your leather car seats. One of the time-tested ways of keeping your leather furniture in tip-top quality is to clean them as regularly as they get dusty and avoiding to let them get all greasy. It is understandable that a lot of homeowners feel intimidated when it comes to cleaning leather furniture. This does not come as a surprise considering the delicacy of leather. One rub in the wrong way could result to irreparable damages on the delicate surface. Cleaning and maintaining of leather chairs at home is however easier once you are armed with the right information. Regular cleaning of leather chairs with the recommended products ensures that they remain in good quality.

## Precautions To Take When Cleaning Leather Car Seats

Before you begin cleaning your leather chairs at home, make sure that you have read the instructions from the manufacturer. Many leather chairs come with an attached tag that contains instructions and cautions to observe when cleaning leather furniture at home. Failure to read the instructions could lead to damage on your leather furniture and even worse, make the warranty void. If the following ways of cleaning leather furniture goes against what is advised by the manufacturer, do not use them without contacting them for permission and directions. What You Will Need • A vacuum cleaner, preferably with a soft brush attachment • Liquid body or facial wash- make sure it is mild • Distilled water- (tap water may contain high amounts of chlorine that could destroy leather) • Soft rags, at least four of them • Water-based Leather conditioner How to Clean the Leather Chairs-The Process 1. Start by vacuuming the leather chairs thoroughly. Make sure that you are doing this with the soft brush otherwise you run the risk of scratching the delicate leather surface. If your vacuum suction is overly small, consider using one with a less powerful suction. 2. Add several drops of liquid facial or body wash with a pint of water and stir until suds form. 3. Use the mixture to test a small part of the furniture first 4. If everything works fine in step 3, dip one of the rags in the water and wring it out thoroughly. 5. Use the damp rag to wipe every part of the leather chair 6. Dip a second rag in the distilled water (without the soap), wring it out and use it to wipe any soap residues from the chair. 7. Use the third rag to wipe dry the chair 8. Use the fourth rag to buff the leather surface 9. Apply the leather conditioner and leave to absorb. Additional Tips to Keep Your Leather Chairs in Quality Form Here are a few more tips that will ensure the durability of your leather furniture is maintained 1. Always wipe any spills on the chairs immediately. Leather is porous and stains tend to penetrate deeper and become difficult to remove 2. Avoid using abrasives and harsh cleaners on your leather furniture. Leather is delicate and heavily affected by such. 3. Dusting and vacuuming your leather chairs should be done regularly in order to help them breathe well and increase their durability.
