---
title: 'Football Fanaticism in Kenya- #My2Cents Input'
description: ""
pubDate: 2014-01-23
redirect_from:
            - https://mahinge.com/?p=3664
tags: ["Affiliate Marketing"]
image: /blog/post-01-cover.png
---
My #2Cents on Football Fanaticism in Kenya Fanaticism is on an all-time high in Kenya. Forget the yesteryears when religion and politics were the only dominant fanaticisms in Kenya. Today’s society is filled by all types of fanaticisms and their adherents. Football is just one of them and the main reason why I am writing this post. Three days ago, a friend of mine almost lost his life after he ridiculed a certain team that is on a losing spree. A few months ago another die-hard fan of the losing team attempted suicide… a real way to diehard, if you ask me. Today my ire is directed at all the men, boys, girls and women who eat, preach, breathe and live European Football. Does it make me an inferior man to not know the teams and the players in the Spanish La Liga, the English Premier League, Italian Serie A and the others? Should I be labeled a jackass since I am not up-to-date with which club is signing who, who scored the first league’s goal and which coach is most likely to be fired? I have been with friends who chose to ignore me completely because I cannot name the player who is on the transfer window and how much he is likely to be sold for. I have been treated like a nincompoop because I could not understand why people get emotional while arguing football. It all boils down to fanaticism of course. The Free English Dictionary defines fanaticism as excessive intolerance to opposing views. It goes ahead to define a fanatic as a person who is driven by irrational enthusiasm for a cause… and you see why I am not so off the mark in calling you a football fanatic. How do you nearly beat a man to death because he called your team a loser? How it became ‘your team’, I don’t even know. I doubt whether you even know how much one share goes for in the stock market. Anyway, I will let you keep your team as long as you keep your football fanaticism to yourself. Just remember that as you were watching that match and getting all fanatical about it; as you were fighting for a guy that you do not even know; someone somewhere was making money. A bill that will affect your children, grandchildren and great grandchildren was being passed in parliament. Your girlfriend, wife, fiancé or family needed you to be there for you… but you thought time with the boys, cheering and getting angry at Moyes was the most worthwhile thing you could do with your time. Honestly, I am restraining myself from shouting, “shame on you all football fanatics!” but I do not have to do it since by the time you snap out of your fanaticism, you will wake up and realize that your girlfriend is being banged by your neighbor, the MPs have added VAT on milk and you can no longer afford it. you will probably be neck deep in debts that it will require that your

I do not say that you should not watch foreign football; I’m just saying that we need to be proactive. If each and every one of us did as we ought to, acted as we are supposed to - pointed fingers when there's a need to, then, in a few years our local league could be at par or even better than some of those foreign leagues. We would know more of what is happening around us; we would care more for those who love us; those neighboring us. We would stop killing ourselves, fighting and insulting for demigods on Supersport 3. Denis Diderot warned us that; ‘from fanatism to barbarism is only one step.’
