---
title: 'How Many Freelance Job Proposals Do You Send Out Per Day?'
description: ""
pubDate: 2014-03-21
redirect_from:
            - https://mahinge.com/?p=3797
tags: ["Affiliate Marketing"]
image: /blog/post-01-cover.png
---
The number one mistake that new freelancers make is that they apply for a few jobs and expect to get an offer. That's simply not how it works, and I will show you why. Even if you weren't competing against people with higher ratings than you, most of these jobs get well over a hundred offers from freelancers. Even if the employers pick at random, you still have a very small chance of being selected for job. The worst part is that they won't pick by random and they obviously give certain people more of a chance than they will give you depending on their personal preference and what they believe makes for a good employee. The only way to win more freelance writing jobs is by placing more proposals. Do not expect to win by simply applying for a few jobs, especially if you are just starting out and have very few reviews.

Here's how you get a freelance writing job. You go to the writing category on Freelancer and fill out every single job offer that is offering extra experience. This will help you level up faster and will give you more bids so that you can slowly increase your chance of getting a writing job. Once you are done with all the writing jobs that are giving you extra experience, just go through the list and apply for every single one that you can find, that you are capable of completing. Once you apply for enough jobs, you will slowly start getting messages or offers from some of these employers. This is your chance to shine. You have to blow these people out of the water by writing something amazing. Be sure to go above and beyond. Applying for and taking a lot of jobs will give you reviews and ratings. Doing an excellent on the few jobs that you do get, will make sure that your reviews and ratings are great. Even when you get to a point where you have great reviews and ratings, you will still have to apply to a lot of them. This is because freelance writing is a very competitive niche and there are plenty of other freelancers out there that also have great ratings and reviews. Sure, you now have a better chance of getting a job offer than you did before, but it's still not that high. You are still going to have to apply for a lot of jobs to get enough. The one advantage of having a high rating though is that now you can apply to a job with a much higher price. If your employer has a higher budget, then he or she will choose you over the beginners with low ratings, simply because they'd rather have the assurance and pay a little extra than take the chance to employ someone who might be troublesome. In the end, whether you are a writing freelancer just starting out or a veteran, you are still going to have to apply for a lot of jobs.
