---
title: 'If I had to Do It All Over Again'
description: ""
pubDate: 2014-01-27
redirect_from:
            - https://mahinge.com/?p=3666
tags: ["Affiliate Marketing"]
image: /blog/post-01-cover.png
---
The past one week has been a hectic one for me. First of all there was my step-mother’s funeral. Everybody seemed to be glad that she was finally gone but nobody wanted to voice it out aloud. It was a good time to reacquaint myself with my step siblings and neighbors. I honestly do love them. We buried her on Thursday, and I travelled to my granny’s on Friday. I spent the night there counting every ticking minute that drove me close to Saturday. Saturday was supposed to be a big day for me. I was meeting my girlfriend M after 2 years of separation. I was hoping for too much yet getting apprehensive that she might not show up. I kept bugging her on the phone to confirm and reconfirm that we still had our date. Same happened almost the whole day on Saturday. “Hello, umefika wapi?” “Tuko Nakuru,” Then, after 10 minutes. “Are you in Naivasha already?” “Patoh ukiniuliza swali ya ujinga tena tutakasona!” I just love the arrogance with this one. It is the one thing that always keeps me baffled. I worship her like she is the goddess of love. I love, love, love her! I could shout it from the rooftops and still feel it like it was a fire burning in my soul. She finally did show up, after the bus I had booked for us had left Nairobi, but that was not even a problem. There are so many buses going to Mombasa that missing one does not make much of a difference. The saddest thing would have been if I missed M. but she was there! She actually turned up, looking as lovely as dashing as the last time I had seen her over one year ago. She gave me a cold hug and continued to chastise me for bugging her the way I had done when she was on her way. “Did you think I was the driver or ours was the only vehicle on the road?” All the same, I was glad that she had turned up. We made small talk until we boarded the next Cahnia Cool bus to Mombasa and we made small talk as it snaked its way along the Mombasa Highway. We made small talk as we stopped in Mtito Andei for supper and when we finally tired of making small talk, M fell on my lap and started giving me a blow job slept heavily. Continue Reading As M slept on my lap, my mind took the proverbial trip down memory lane. I remembered how far we had come and how I fell in love with M from the moment I saw her. I know girls do wonder if anything like that exists. It does. When a guy looks at a woman in the first few seconds, he classifies her into the three main types of chics in his life. 1. Can make a good sidedish, the type you bang and walk away 2. She’s a good girlfriend material 3. She is not of my class or she’s inaccessible for both 1&2 above. That first day I saw M, I knew that she was a snug fit into the second category. I had fallen in love with her and I wanted her for myself. The only problem was that I was already in a relationship with F. I also loved F with all of my being. She was a good girl in all the fronts. She had been with me through some of the toughest moments in my life. She had transformed me from a raging alcoholic that I was into a responsible guy that every campus girl wanted to date. How could I leave her for this new fresha who I hardly knew? I tried to play it cool with M. I tried to pretend that nothing was going on between us although the chemistry was so thick and palpable that you could hold it in your hands. She used to come to my room and we would watch Mugithi. We went for supper together. Before I knew it, she was a permanent fixture in my life and we were screwing like hell hath no fury.
